Editing ground truth data to separate into training and validation data

Software: postGRESql and QGIS


Reasoning	: fields where there are mixed crops are not suitable for training data therefore we need to determine which fields are mixed to decide what to allocate to training or validation.
		: Using QGIS to prep the files and use postGRESql to identify fields with more than one crop in, make a new column which excludes these groups and use fields from within this column for training data, randomly select data for validation.

Data: shape file of area you want to use for training and validation (kelso) and LPS land parcels


FIRST PART IN QGIS, SECOND IN POSTGRESQL
Open QGIS 
Drag in Kelso shapefile and LPS land parcels shapefile

BUFFER STEP
Buffer known inspection fields (Kelso file)
Click the "Vector" option at the top of the programme>
"Geoprocessing tools" >
"Buffer" >
Select the known inspection fields file (Kelso) in the "input layers" drop-down menu.
Select the distance you want for the buffer, we set this to -1 so the buffer was 'inward', this is to remove the potential for joins of adjacent polygons with shared boundaries.
Click "Run"



JOIN STEP
Click the "Processing" option at the top of the programme>
Toolbox>
Vector >
Join attributes by location
	Input layer -LPIS land parcels
	Join layer - Buffered file

Geometric predicate
	intersect

Tick the discard records which could not be joined box. 

REVIEWING STEP
Review the newly created "Joined layer" and overlay "Buffered" area check to see if they match up.

If there are any large areas which do not line up exclude these from the joined layer.
To delete specific areas right click "Joined layer" and click "Toggle editing"

A the top of the programme find the "Select areas by features or single click" icon and click it.
Then click the area you want to remove, once selected click delete.

Save layer edits and turn off layer editing.

POSTGRESQL STEP
Import into using dbmanager 

For further instructions for postgresql see code.






